# Design Diary
Use this space to talk about your process.  For inspiration, see [my prompts](../../../docs/sample_reflection.md) 

The biggest struggle I've had so far with this project is by far getting ncurses to work on my Macbook Pro. I started by using visual studio code, but I found online that on a mac, C++ doesn't work with visual studio code. So I started using XCode, which built the ncurses code (the code that was done on the first lab) unsuccessfully. I did more research and found that I needed to get rid of the windows specific file for the libraries and add the mac specific libraries to the XCode project. That built the code successfully, but I was and am still not able to run it. I currently have to run the code through terminal, which is not ideal (actually it's terrible for debugging), because I can't set break points anywhere. I can only run the code and hope that it works. I still need to figure out how to run the code in XCode. For now, I continued working on the .cpp file, which the next step was to get the overall GUI. I sort of succeeded. I currently have the layout I want (Menus at the top, prompts for the user at the right of the menus, and an input window below for typing text). However, I struggled getting the color of the window to not bleed out of the border. I still don't have that working. I would like to implement colors better for milestone 2. I do have text input working though! Including the up, down, left, and right arrows, and the enter key. Honestly, that took forever to get working the way I wanted it to. The text was starting at the top of the screen, but I wanted it to start at the top of the input window. I finally found the functions that are specific to windows when updating the cursor placement and character placement. That made it finally work the way I wanted it to. The most enjoyable part about this assignment was reading about every function in the ncurses library, and figuring out how to implement the exact functions I want and need for the stuff I am trying to implement. This ties into my recommendation for a future student starting this project. I would say to them "You can start with youtube tutorials to get a better feel for how ncurses works and the possibilities of ncurses. However, when implementing your own stuff, really attempt to understand EXACTLY what each function that you are implementing does, and most importantly, how it interacts with other functions (for example, cbreak and noecho functions are the best combo for your text editor code, where as any other combinations of the four functions: cbreak, nocbreak, echo, and noecho, will run you into problems and very strange and cryptic errors.) 
